All right.
So we're finally in a position to make our guests the celebrity app.
Just a quick recap of what we're trying to do.
We're going to use the code of POS $24 com slash celebrities to get the photos and names of the top
100 celebs and then we're going to store those within our app and display them to the user and require
the user to guess which celebrity is appearing in a random picture.
So I can show you exactly what we're going to make.
This is it in action.
So this one I think I actually recognize I think that's Tina Fey.
So I'm going to click on there and with any luck it'll tell me correct.
Fantastic.
And then go on the next one.
Is that Zac Efron possibly correct.
It is oh this one I've no idea.
That's go for Alice correct again.
Very good.
Now I do actually know this one but let's say that it's Ryan Adams just so that we can see what happens
when we get it wrong.
There we go.
So if you get it wrong it tells us the next one.
So all it does is just go round and round.
I haven't got any score counting or anything like that because we did all that stuff in the brain drain
app.
So you can add that yourself if you want but this is really the basic functionality that we need.
And there's nothing here that we haven't done.
In some ways before so I'd definitely do your best to do this completely on your own.
But of course as always you are very welcome to follow along and see how I created this one myself.
Let's have a final guess.
Steve-O No.
Are you Jenson Button.
Unfortunate.
OK.
Best of luck Ben.
Because well.
All right.
I hope you manage that.
I'm going to start of course by creating a new project which I'll call guess the celebrity
usual settings.
Here we go.
OK.
So I'll start with the layout of the app and it's pretty straightforward.
We want the image view at the top and then four buttons underneath for the user to choose who they think
that celebrity is.
So I'm going to use a grid layout just like we did before.
And then I'm going to start by bringing my image v.
into the Create Louds game again to change the width to fill parent.
And then just like we did before.
I'm going to go over to text for you.
And then set the column to be zero and the row to be zero.
And crucially they lay out gravity to be.
PHIL.
So now if we put back I can see that that image view now spreads around the whole of the gravy.
So let's see what happens when we bring in how buttons
so at the moment the button is off to the right which we don't want.
Obviously we want that underneath.
So we need to do is set the row and column correctly.
So the row now is going to be one and the column is still going to be zero and that we only have one
column here.
So they're all going to have a column of 0.
So now we should say that the button is below the imagery which is just what we want we do want however
to change the width of the button to make it full screen.
So change the width to fill parent.
And while I'm here I'll change the unclick
T.
Scilab chosen.
And one more change that I'll make is I will add a tag so that we can tell which button has been tapped.
Here we go.
So just as before.
So we'll call this one.
Tag zero.
And then let's move that back up there we'll add the rest of our buttons
and the only changes that we need to make to change the tag and the row
and the ID.
So just to increment each of those for each button
and tag three
a game that we get.
So obviously our image is blank at the moment.
And one thing actually I'm going to set the text to nothing because I don't want it to say new button
while it's waiting for
the initial download of content
you get.
All right.
So now I see main activity
and our first challenge is of course to download the content of the past 24 dot com slash celebrities
website.
So the code is going to be pretty much exactly the same as what we had before.
So let's go through it nice and quickly so create our public class.
I'll keep the names the same as well.
Download task.
And it extends a async task.
We're going to send a string to it's we've got nothing today.
While it's downloading while it's happening and we're going to expect a string back
then we're going to get Android studio to implement the do in background method for us.
There it is.
Change the string to you or else get rid of the return null.
In fact you may just keep that
just in case we need it.
OK.
And then as before we'll create a result string which is initially empty will have an initially empty
u r l variable and will create an h t t p u r l connection.
Called u r l connection which will initially be no
right and we're going to try.
First of all to create a u r l from the U R L that was passed to the dairying background method which
is you are Elle's Siri
and because we don't like is hanging around as we're working or create a catch exception e a general
exception and we'll just print a stack trace to show us what the error is.
OK then we're going to activate your L connection by taking u r l and opening the connection to it.
And we do need to cast that to a type of page TTP your real connection.
Then we create an input stream
I'll call it in again which is going to be your RL connection Daut get input stream and then input stream
reader again I'll call it Rita.
He's going to be our new input stream reader created based on our input stream I n then we get our data
into the
called datum which is equal to read a dot read.
So we're starting to read the input stream reader.
And then we loop 3 as long as data is not equal to minus 1
and as long as that's the case
we'll have a char called Current which is going to be equal to a data cast as a char
I said it right but we're wrong data cost as a child.
There we go.
Then we append jaw 2 results.
And we carry on the process
and once that's all done well we're 10 years old.
And then no will be returned if result is not returned.
So if this fails so we'll leave that in
now we want to run that on Create say download task
we'll call it task again is equal to the download task creates a result string
which is initially no
and then we'll set result equal C and we'll take our task and execute it.
Using R U R L which is HTP colon double slash to read every top posh 24 dot com slash celebrities
and then we want to get the result of that.
So we use Dockett OK because that's running on the other thread.
We need to surround it with try and catch to catch all of the possible errors.
And then as before I'm just going to log that
just like that.
There we go.
So quite a lot of code but hopefully it all makes sense.
And it was really a little bit quicker to time the second or third time around.
Finally we need to add our line to the manifest.
So that uses permission and the permission that we need.
Same one that we usually go for Android don't permission.
Internet.
And just before we run that you may have noticed that I was appending result to itself there so that
really wouldn't have given us much data at all.
Sorry about that.
Let's get that again.
Now we should find of course that it just returns the contents of 24 dot com slash celebrities and prints
them to the logs and there we go.
You can see that it's loaded up fine.
And there is the content that we're looking for.
Fabulous.
So now we need to process that content and get the precise information that we need.
That shouldn't be too difficult given that we've done most of the hard work already over here in prau
X Y so that extracts the information that we need.
Now if we take a look at the code and search for what we were searching for before which was SLAC equals
and then the double quotes we can select that and then use command therefore control f to search for
it in the page.
You can see it does indeed give us everything that we want.
Unfortunately it also gave us gives us a few things that we don't want as well like these javascript
links.
But if we updated our code to include the image tag I am g then that doesn't give us anything that we
don't want except maybe at the end.
Let's go and have a look and see if there are any other images at the end.
And indeed yes there are there are some images that we don't want because they're to do with other articles
on the other end of the page.
So if we can find a way to split the page at say this point again let's just check and make sure that
there's only one of those.
So if we split the page at this point and then search for the image as Sassy's at the part of the page
before that point then that should give us everything that we need.
And crucially nothing that we don't need.
So let's try that.
Back to android studios.
So now here is where we want to process result.
So I saved that bit of code in the clipboard then.
So let's remind ourselves how we do our split by looking at the code that we had here.
So I'm just going to copy that straight in to Android studio
and let's change it to split results.
And then this is going to be result don't split but instead of splitting it by the letter S we're going
to split it with div class equals and then sidebar content and you can see it's actually very helpfully
put the backslashes in for us.
So we don't need to do that ourselves.
Fantastic.
So now we just need to do the loop through part and again we can get the code from that from prowar
X Y
and select both parts
and I point to work that we've already done.
Again let's add in pattern and match up and then we just need to change HMO for split result.
And in fact sorry we want to split result 0 because we want the first part of that array which will
be the part before the sidebar container.
So that will be the part containing all the celebrities but not the part containing the latest news.
Excellent.
So now that should print a lot to the looks.
So let's get rid of that because we no longer need it and run that again and see if that works.
It's worth pointing out here that this is not a great way to get your data if you want your app to be
reliable because we obviously don't control don't come.
We hope that they will update this and that we'll keep our app up to date with the latest celebrities.
But if they changed the code of this page then how app would then break.
So it's not a great way to make a reliable app.
However it could be good for downloading some information to then store in your app later on if you're
not relying on this all the time.
We'll see a much better way to get data from the web using Jaison and API is in the next video.
But this is a great introduction to getting web content and using it.
And here we go.
You can see there are all our celebrity names and they're all image you are else fantastic.
OK let's now then create a couple of great lists to store those.
So I'll create them globally because we're going to need access to them all over the place.
So we'll have an array list of strings going to be a new array list
of strings
and let's call it Scilab
you are Elle's
and then very similarly we'll create one called celeb names
and then instead of printing these are the logs every time you take that first one remember finds the
you are else so celeb you are Elle's it had and then
am grape.
And then similarly
celeb names add
am group grape.
All right.
So now we have two array lists one of which contains all the you are else for the images for all celebrities
and the other one contains all the names.
So what we want to do next is pick a number at random.
Get that image you are l download the image and then display it for the user.
So let's do that
down in creates where we
here.
So after we've got a celeb you or else an celeb names let's create a random
which we'll call random and it's going to be a new random
then we'll have an integer code chosen celeb which again is likely to need access from
a number of places.
So I'll define it up here and I'll give it an initial value of zero.
I just so that we've got something to work with and then we can take chosen celeb is going to be equal
to random and then we want to create a new integer which has got to be between 0 and the size or one
less than the size of the array list.
So celeb you are Elle's don't size
I remember random dot next it gives you a random number between 0 and 1 less than the number that you
put in here.
Which is exactly what we want because one less than that is going to be the highest value.
So now the small matter of downloading the image.
So as I'm sure you've anticipated this is going to involve a second public class extending async task.
So that's bundling three.
So public class again image downloader which extends async task and we're going to send it a string
which will be the U r l.
We don't need anything to happen while it's working.
And then it's going to return a bitmap.
We'll use Android studio to implement the do in background method.
Here it is and then that's before we change programs to you or else.
And then
we'll create a u r l called u r l.
It's going to be a new U R L from
u r ALS 0
and we'll let it surround that with try and catch
and then we'll create a new HGP u r l connection which we'll call connection which will need to cast
to keep a connection but we'll get it from you.
We're all taught open connection.
And then once again we'll add the IO exception.
Catch for you are an open connection then will connect
then we'll create our input stream to call input stream which we get from connection to get input stream.
Then we'll create our bitmap my bitmap
which we get from bitmap factory Dart's the code stream and the stream of course is input stream
finally returned my bitmap
and we've already got the return now there just in case something goes wrong.
OK so now we've got to Klaas's that we need.
So let's hear
create a new image download the
oh call it image task just to differentiate it from the task that we created up here.
And that's a new image down later
and we'll also create a bitmap
which will cause celeb image
Ben will let celeb image he will image task don't execute and we want to send a u r l u r l of course
is the silap you are L's dot get and then the one that we want is of course chosen silap
and we want to get the result of that.
So we use it don't get.
And finally we want to update our image say let's again create a variable up here called whatever type
image you
and we've only got the one.
So we'll just call it image.
And then just at the beginning of uncreate Let's find it.
So imagery
is equal to a cast it has an image for you and get it from find view by ID.
ID thought he mid-fi.
And finally then we want to update image view with set image bitmap and that is celeb image.
A lot of work but with any luck that will result in a random image being chosen and then displayed to
the user.
The next step of course is to pick the matching name and then three other random names and display those
in the buttons.
And there we go.
There's a celebrity I must confess to not knowing which celebrity that is.
Feel free to bury me in the comments if necessary.
Right.
But we now have our celebrity.
So let's get his or her name and a bunch of others appearing in those buttons so we can do this in a
similar way that we did it with the brain trainer app which required a
few variables here.
So first we had a location of correct
answer which was an integer between 0 and 3 which showed us which button contains the correct answer
and then we'll have an array of integers as
called answers.
We use an array list last time but we could just as well use an array because we know there's always
going to be four of them.
This is going to be a new integer array with 4 items in it.
OK that should do for now.
So let's then
just here.
Set up how location of correct answer we can use.
How random variable again and create next and this time we want a random variable between 0 and 3.
So we can use nexted for
then we can use a for loop to set up the values within ounces.
So we'll start with Isaac with 0.
Keep going as long as I is less than full.
We'll have to set up as an integer first of course and then increment by each time.
Then if y is equal say the location of the correct answer then we want to update our answers
in that particular answer.
So the answer is
is equal to and I've just thought I think I said this to be a set of integers Yes which they shouldn't
be.
They are going to be strings because they need to contain
the names
so you want to set it to select names
and then the correct answer.
So we get that from celeb names or get chosen silap and then if it's not
then we need to create a random answer.
So let's create a kind of hold of every ball for that
call it incorrect on location and then we'll create that using a random generator.
So next in.
And then just as before we're going to use celeb you URLs to us size
to get the range of our incorrect answer location.
And then we want to set on says I see celeb names to get and then not chosen at this time but incorrect
answer location.
Now if you watch the video with a brain training app you will probably flag up here that there is of
course a possibility that we will randomly choose the correct answer here and we need to stop that from
happening.
So we'll have a quick while loop.
So as long as the incorrect answer location is equal to the correct answer which is chosen celeb and
we'll choose another one to mom.
So again that's just quite a neat way of making sure that we don't get the correct answer twice.
All right so now we've got all of those values.
Let's update our buttons.
Site we're going to need some buttons here.
All have buttons.
The button widget and then one button and button three.
And then we can just update them all here.
So button 0 to set text and that's going to be on says
and then Same same for Button one button T and button three says one two and three and of course we
need to find those buttons
so button 0 3
is a button and we'll find it by its ID ID.
Top bottom.
And then I'll just copy that
safe having to type it hits of times button 1 2 and 3.
I don't have an issue with button 1 I call the button 2 3 and 4.
I wasn't very intelligent of me but actually it doesn't matter too much we can leave out like that if
you're a perfectionist with these things and you probably want to make those numbers match up.
But the code will work just as well.
Or write them let's take a look.
We should now find that we have a celeb along with the correct answer in a random location and then
three other answers.
Elsewhere now we've got an interesting result here.
We've got a guy and we've got four names but I'm pretty sure none of which match to that guy.
Now I have to look quite hard back to see where this had gone wrong.
I wonder if you can anticipate what the era was.
It was actually something that I mentioned earlier and that was that this SIRC is going to show some
different results but we don't actually want the solution to that was to make sure that we've got the
image tag included in that.
Otherwise we're going to get some extra unwanted results in the celeb.
You are Elle's what you're going to cause problems and they're also going to stop the Selebi you are
L's and the celeb names from matching up which is what caused that issue there.
Right.
Try that again.
OK here we go.
This looks a bit more promising.
I'm again don't know who this person is but from the image then we've got three guys names by the looks
of it so I'm going to go for by ling and there she is.
Fantastic.
OK.
So either We've been very unlucky there and it's randomly given us correct value or more hopefully everything
is now working correctly.
So let's move on to the button press
which was around here somewhere
actually maybe we didn't manage to do that yet.
So let's just remind ourselves unclick was the celeb chosen.
So let's add that method A top so public Foyt celeb chosen and this is going to be called by a few and
this time this specific view does matter or specifically that tag matters to know if the user has got
it right or not.
So again we can do this in a similar way to our brain training app and we can check to see if the button
that was tapped and the tag of that button converted to a string equals
a integer converted to a string.
Location of correct answer.
So remember the tags that we chose for our buttons were 0 1 2 and 3 which of course match up with the
follies of ounces and also the location of the correct answer.
So that's going to be 0 1 2 or 3.
So if this is it that means they got it right.
So I'm going to share a quick toast.
So make text and then we use gets application context for the context.
And I'll just put correct the actual content and then toast to length long and then show.
And if it's not.
And I think we'll tell them who it was.
Say very similar but wrong it was.
And then we give the correct answer.
Which will be celeb names
chosen groups it's an array list and an top get chosen celeb.
So I'm just going to check that that works.
And once that works that's the penultimate thing to do.
And all we've got left is to make it so that a new question pops up as soon as the previous question
ends.
So as we saw at the beginning I'm not going to create a kind of running total or anything like that.
We're just going to run through it.
But you could do that very easily using what we did in the brain training app if you want to.
Here we go.
I think I might actually know that one is how it's done.
Corrects fantastic and when that happens I can actually check the other ones as well because we're not
going on the correct ones are wrong it was how it's done.
So everything seems to be fine.
So all we need to do is to make it so that instead of just creating a new question the first time round
it creates one every time.
So we need to do is take out code out of uncreate and put it into a separate method and then call it
twice.
So we don't need to obviously download all the content again because we've already got bats.
Remember though that that was part of I try and catch so we need to leave that
previous code.
And then here creates public FOID create new question and we don't need to parse anything there.
So we can put out Kate in there it should be fine but we will need a try and catch
and I'm actually going to make that just a general exception.
Just to keep things simple and I'm going to put everything else in the tri
case as well.
Just in case we get any further problems OK.
And then we need to do is create a new question and create and when the user has answered a question
as well whether they got it right or wrong they still get a new question.
OK.
With any luck the app should now be pretty much complete.
So here we go.
I got a feeling that might be moiling class.
Nope it wasn't.
OK this chap then got to be Ryan Reynolds.
God it's fantastic.
Lara Stone Nope.
Suki Waterhouse no that's not Brad Pitt as cofre Lisa Snowden.
It wasn't OK.
But either way you know that I'm very bad with celebrities.
But we now have a completely working guest the celebrity app which you could actually extend to almost
any kind of guessing game where you get the content and then give the user a random selection of incorrect
answers.
Along with of course the correct answer.
So I hope you enjoyed that one.
I'm now going to move on as promised and show you how to work with Jason a.p eyes so that you're not
relying on the Web site creators Web site not changing which.
So probably not a great thing to rely on for any production app.
So you are in the next video.